# httpapi

## Summary

The HTTPAPI working group meeting covered several key topics, including the status of the Deprecation Header, API Catalog, Item Potency Key, Byte Range Patch, Link Hints, Open API Media Type registration, Rate Limit Headers, and Problem Types for Digest Fields.  Discussions centered on scope, interoperability, implementation details, and potential adoption of new specifications.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Deprecation Header & API Catalog:**  Updates provided; progressing towards IESG review.
*   **Item Potency Key:** Discussion regarding whether intermediates should be able to fulfill item potency requirements.  Differing viewpoints on whether the current scope should be expanded to include intermediate services.
*   **Byte Range Patch:** Status update and call for bikeshedding on transaction preference names and values. Integration with resumable uploads and Braid was mentioned.
*   **Link Hints:** No significant activity.
*   **Open API Media Type Registration:** Blocked by uncertainties around suffixes; discussion on whether to register application/openapi without a suffix.
*   **Rate Limit Headers:** Progress update on draft addressing previous comments, specifically around quota unit properties and the introduction of a 'partition key' for scope.  Seeking feedback on the best way to communicate the set of values making up the partition key to the client.
*   **Problem Types for Digest Fields:**  Presentation on a proposal for standardizing problem details for reporting errors related to integrity checking using Digest fields. The presentation included example problem detail types, such as mismatching digest value, unsupported algorithm, and invalid digest value. There was discussion about whether to include the specific digest (representation or content digest) in the problem detail. Also, questions regarding overlaps with work on HTTP signatures.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Item Potency Key:** Post summary and a pointer to the mailing list to gather more feedback.  Consensus call to be made after a couple of weeks regarding support for intermediate services.
*   **Byte Range Patch:** Austin to post a new draft with questions and solicit feedback on the mailing list.
*   **Open API Media Type Registration:** No decision was made regarding suffixing.
*   **Problem Types for Digest Fields:** Call for adoption on the mailing list to start next week. Lucas and Marius to consider if HTTP Signatures should be included as well. Justin Richer could be invited to present on HTTP Signatures at the next meeting.
*   **Security Directory Review:** Add the sectia review to the GitHub issues list.

## Next Steps

*   **Item Potency Key:** Close the issue on GitHub after the mailing list discussion and consensus call.
*   **Byte Range Patch:** New draft and mailing list discussion.
*   **Deprecation Header & API Catalog:**  Continue progress towards IESG review.
*   **Problem Types for Digest Fields:** Call for adoption on the mailing list, consider HTTP Signatures.
