# moq

## Summary
The moq working group meeting covered several key topics including interop updates, live streaming via MOQ, a high-level status update, recent draft changes, catalog format discussions, secure objects, and implementation experiences with subscribe V2.  The group discussed partial reliability model, the semantics of stream reset, fetch vs. subscribe, and publisher-related issues.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Interop Update:** Several implementations are working on draft 5. A call for a new MOQ interop czar was made to document behaviors of sample apps and define interop use cases.
*   **Live Streaming via MOQ:** A live stream of the IETF meeting was demonstrated using MOQ.  The setup involved a webcam, laptop, IETF network connection, a relay in Los Angeles, and open-source software components.
*   **High-Level Status Update:** The group reviewed progress made over the past year, highlighting improvements to subscribe parameters, the object model, consensus on splitting up transport layers, and the adoption of the catalog draft.  Focus areas for the remainder of the year include partial reliability, stream reset semantics, fetch vs. subscribe, security, and DDoS considerations.
*   **Draft Changes:** Discussion of updates in drafts 04 and 05, focusing on subscribe V2, priority in group send order, object status, and track status requests.
*   **Catalog Format:** A lengthy discussion on the catalog format, including the term "format" versus "packaging," extensibility, the use of IANA registries, the addition of a "type" attribute for tracks, and streaming format identifiers.
*   **Secure Objects:** Discussion on end-to-end encryption of data, drawing parallels with SRTP and SFrame. Keying mechanisms were noted as out of scope. The group discussed integrating SFrame with MOQ, including how to handle group IDs and object IDs.
*   **Implementation Experience with Subscribe V2:** Victor presented issues encountered implementing subscribe V2, particularly with range subscriptions, live edge behavior, and handling non-existent objects.  The group discussed fetch vs. subscribe and potential solutions. The need to address how to handles objects from the past was discussed.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Interop Czar:** The group will continue to seek a volunteer to serve as the MOQ interop czar. In the meantime, authors of interop applications should write drafts detailing how their implementations work.
*   **PR Assignments:** The editor will assign out PRs for various issues to interested contributors, who will then work on them and present them in weekly interim meetings for review.
*   **Catalog Format Design Team:** A design team will be formed to address concerns related to packaging, formats, and descriptions, involving relevant people from different streaming formats and the catalog draft.
*   **Extensibility of Mott:** Mo will file a MOQT issue to discuss whether trailers in the transport is needed.
*   **Subscribe V2/Fetch PR:** Victor was encouraged to submit a PR focusing on a revised subscribe/fetch mechanism, with an emphasis on eliminating backfill problems, and some discussion around excluding caches.

## Next Steps
*   Address open issues and assigned PRs, and continue discussions in virtual interims.
*   Continue iterating on the secure objects draft, focusing on integration with SFrame.
*   Explore solutions for improving the subscribe V2 mechanism.
*   Further investigate extensibility of the object header and whether the transport needs trailers.
*   The catalog format design team should be formed.
*   Will to present his warp slides on Thursday.
