# IDR Session - IETF 123

## Summary

The IDR session covered several key topics, including the effort to move BGP4 to a full standard, path attribute filtering, dynamic capabilities, a refresher on second label discussion, flow spec iFIT mechanisms, and unreachable prefix announcement. The discussions were lively, with significant focus on the scope and impact of proposed changes, and a call for broader participation in the working group.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **BGP4 to Full Standard (RFC4271bis):**
    *   Need to fix existing errata and documented but unimplemented features before moving to full standard.
    *   Discussion on what should be included in the base BIS document vs. separate RFCs.  The scope is to reflect the *deployed* design, not to invent new technology or fix perceived past mistakes.
    *   Strong support for including 4-byte ASNs.
    *   Consensus to remove AS-Sets entirely.
    *   Debate on whether to introduce new SHOULD statements.
    *   Acknowledgement that the working group would likely use GitHub for collaboration with the mailing list as backup communication.
    *   Timeline is expected to approach working group last call in a year, but not at the next meeting.
*   **Path Attribute Filtering:**
    *   Standardizing filtering mechanisms in EBGP to address issues related to unintended propagation of attributes and features.
    *   Discussion about the use of a bit vector to indicate attributes to be filtered.
    *   Concerns raised about the granularity of filtering and potential conflicts with existing features.
    *   Debate on default filtering policies (permit vs. deny).
    *   The goal is to socialize the proposal and solicit feedback on encoding and the overall approach.
*   **Dynamic Capabilities:**
    *   Update on the draft for revising capabilities during a BGP session.
    *   Focus on managing revisions of capability instances, error handling, and backward compatibility.
    *   Discussion of two-way handshake process and the need for acknowledgements.
*   **Second Label Discussion:**
    *   Problem statement and potential solutions regarding label allocation in topologies with route reflectors or ASBRs.
    *   Exploration of using NHC attribute or extended communities to address label exhaustion issues.
    *   The goal is to get input from the working group and carve out a better solution before the next IETF.
*   **Flow Spec iFIT Mechanisms:**
    *   Motivation for dynamic injection of iFIT-related state information via BGP flow spec.
    *   The proposed mechanism leverages BGP flow spec for telemetry-driven network operation.
*   **Unreachable Prefix Announcement (UPA):**
    *   Addressing slow convergence in overlay networks due to hidden egress PE failures.
    *   Proposal to propagate unreachability information via MP_UNREACH messages.
    *   Concerns about the security and complexity of various signaling options.
    *   Debate on the best approach to propagating the information.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **John Scudder:** Will upload an updated RFC4271bis draft to GitHub, based on Tony's effort.
*   **Authors of each Draft:** Incorporate working group feedback into updated versions and solicit further review and feedback on the mailing list.
*   **Chairs:** Establish the appropriate use of GitHub for the WG, ensuring inclusivity and transparency.
*   **WG Members:** Review the discussed drafts and provide feedback on the mailing list.

## Next Steps

*   Focused discussion on the mailing list regarding:
    *   The scope of RFC4271bis
    *   Path attribute filtering policies
    *   Best approach to unreachable prefix announcement.
*   Further refinement of drafts based on working group feedback and continued collaboration on GitHub.
