# mediaman

## Summary

The mediaman working group discussed the status of existing documents, primarily focusing on 6838bis and its integration with other related drafts.  The group discussed open issues on the 6838bis draft, the incorporation process, and potential conflicts related to consensus reached in the suffixes draft. There was also a discussion regarding legacy media type registrations and bulk registration requests.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Status of Working Group Documents:** The haptics and top-level documents are in the RFC editor's queue.  The group's opinion is that the mediaman top-level standard tree and suffixes should be merged into 6838bis.
*   **6838bis Open Issues and Incorporation:** Four open issues exist on the 6838bis draft, including cleaning up additional information fields. The plan is to incorporate the suffixes draft incrementally, publishing each incorporated section as a separate draft for review.
*   **Appeals Procedure:** The appeals procedure for registrations refers to RFC 2026 and requires clarification. It will be filed as an issue.
*   **Suffixes Draft Consensus:** Concerns were raised about the suffixes draft's consensus being achieved via "exhaustion." It was agreed that controversial parts of the suffixes draft would be identified and discussed separately before incorporation. Key points of concern were assigning change control of a base media subtype.
*   **Legacy Media Type Registrations:**  Discussion focused on cleaning up old media type registrations with outdated or missing registration documents.  A suggestion was made to empower the expert to maintain the registry and clean things up, but also be aware of community opinions.
*   **Empowering Experts:** The suggestion was made to add specific cleanup requests in the procedures repository.
*   **Bulk Media Type Registrations:**  Concerns were raised about a single organization (3GPP) submitting numerous highly granular media type registrations.
*   **IANA Considerations for 5322bis:** The group will review the IANA registry for stale references to ensure compatibility with the upcoming 5322bis.
*   **GitHub Procedures:** Should the working group use GitHub to track media type registration changes?

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Action Item:** Mark Thomas and Pete Resnick will act as editors for 6838bis and incorporate the suffixes draft incrementally, publishing separate drafts for review of each incorporated section.
*   **Action Item:** John Klensin will file an issue regarding acknowledgements of authors of the original 6838 document for the 6838bis draft.
*   **Action Item:** Editors will identify potentially controversial parts of the suffixes draft.
*   **Action Item:** Rahul will suggest a change to 6838bis regarding unregistered grandfathered media types.
*   **Action Item:** Group to discuss empowering an expert to make uncontroversial cleanup requests to the media type registry.
*   **Action Item:**  Daryl to work with Ari (3GPP Liaison) to discuss 3GPP media registration practice.
*   **Action Item:** Group to review and clean up stale references in the registry to ensure compatibility with the upcoming 5322bis.
*   **Decision:**  Concerns about the suffixes document are accepted. The areas of concern are to be addressed in a careful, collaborative manner through single-purpose PRs.

## Next Steps

*   Mark and Pete will create the first revision of 6838bis, incorporating an initial piece of the suffixes document.
*   The working group will monitor the mailing list for announcements about new drafts and pull requests and provide feedback.
*   Continue discussions regarding legacy media type registration clean up and the 3GPP media registration concern on the mailing list.
