```markdown
# nfsv4

## Summary

This nfsv4 working group meeting covered several important topics, including the status of existing documents, security considerations for RDMA, internationalization efforts, and future directions for the working group. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to discussing the 5661bis draft and the need for addressing security concerns related to PNFS. The group also discussed the frequency and scheduling of interim meetings.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Document Status:**
    *   Dell State ID 3: Working group last call complete, moving forward.
    *   Scuzzy layout for NVMe: Working group last call complete, needs shepherd write-up.
    *   Layout Week Cash Consistency: Working group last call complete, needs shepherd write-up.
    *   Internationalization document: Work in progress, seeking expert review.
    *   5661bis: Major work item, discussed in detail.
    *   Talpies RDMA commit: Adopted, to be split into two documents. Missing adoption call to close in 2 weeks from today.
*   **RDMA Security:**
    *   Discussion on how to secure RDMA with considerations for TLS and QUIC.
    *   Concerns raised about hardware offload requirements and the need to align with other mainstream use cases.
    *   Proposal to add encryption to RDMA direct transfers was mentioned.
    *   The importance of working with hardware vendors to determine feasible solutions was emphasized.
*   **Internationalization:**
    *   Previous efforts were deemed insufficient.
    *   Concerns raised that current approach mixed clarifying behavior in existing specifications and not addressing core issues.
    *   A meeting between participants and IESG is scheduled.
*   **NVMe Layout:** Implementer feedback suggested using UUID as unique identifier. A personal draft with proposal and request for adoption will be created.
*   **5661bis:**
    *   Discussion on updating and correcting inaccuracies in the document.
    *   Concerns about the treatment of security and the lack of threat analysis.
    *   Clarification needed on terminology and semantics, including retry semantics, client owner terminology.
    *   Questioned if persistent reply cache still relevant.
    *   Discussed changes made to the document with recommendations to read the document and provide feedback.
*   **Nconnect issues** Discussion on best practices of load balancing on clients.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Talpies RDMA:** Tom Felby to split the RDMA commit document into two documents and provide names to chairs.
*   **RDMA Security:** Further investigation into TLS and QUIC for RDMA security.  David to explore different solutions.
*   **Internationalization:** A meeting between participants and IESG is scheduled to discuss the document.
*   **NVMe Layout:** A draft proposing the use of UUID as the unique identifier for NVMe layout is to be created and submitted for adoption.
*   **5661bis:** Authors to review the document and address comments, including those related to terminology, security, and persistent reply caches. Review related material such as RFC 8434.
*   **Interim Meetings:** Interim meetings to be scheduled approximately monthly, at 2 PM EST on Tuesdays, using Zoom. Chris to setup calendar invite.

## Next Steps

*   Tom Felby will split the RDMA commit document.
*   David will continue exploring RDMA security solutions, including QUIC.
*   Chairs will schedule the interim meetings.
*   Working group participants should review the 5661bis draft and provide feedback on the mailing list.
*   Authors to address feedback in the next draft of the document.
*   Explore documenting best practices in Nconnect implementation.
