# moq

## Summary

The Media over QUIC (moq) working group meeting covered updates on existing drafts and introduced new proposals. A key discussion revolved around the moq transport draft, with a focus on issue triage and process improvements led by the new editor, Ian Swit. The group also delved into streaming format negotiation and harmonization, with a presentation from Will Law on the Warp streaming format and a proposal to merge Warp and Lock functionalities.  Various architectural and design considerations were raised, highlighting the ongoing evolution and refinement of the moq specifications.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **moq Transport Draft Issues:** Ian Swit outlined his approach to managing open issues in the moq transport draft, including tagging, prioritization, and proposal handling.
*   **Track ID Assignment:**  Discussion on whether the client or server should choose the track ID, with strong arguments made for server-side assignment to facilitate CDN integration. The group decided to defer the final decision and continue the discussion on the mailing list.
*   **Control and Data Streams:**  Debate on whether to split control and data streams, similar to HTTP/3. Concerns were raised about the definition of control messages and potential impacts on stream context. Ian will attempt to clarify the individual problems and summarise to determine a clear path forward.
*   **Streaming Format Negotiation:** Presentation by Victor on how to renegotiate streaming format with the idea of extending the subscribe message. The group discussed whether this functionality belongs in the transport draft or should be handled at a higher layer.
*   **Track Name Ambiguity:** Issue raised by Alan regarding potential ambiguity in track naming due to namespace overlaps. Several solutions were proposed, including rejecting overlapping namespaces, using a tuple for track name and namespace, or defining a prefix matching scheme.
*   **Warp and Lock Merger:** Will Law presented a proposal to merge the Warp and Lock streaming formats, combining their features into a unified catalog and packaging approach. This sparked a discussion on how to balance interoperability with the need for specialized profiles or separate formats.
*   **Harmonized Catalog Format:** Will Law detailed a proposal for a harmonized catalog format, using JSON syntax and supporting different packaging types (CMAF, Lock). Several use cases were presented (sports broadcast, conference, delta updates, mixed format and others).
*   **Reconnection Semantics:** Concern raised about reliable client connections dropping and rejoining. Callin volunteered to file a new issue about how to handle reconnections and guarantee a high availability.
*   **Announce Message:** Some discussion about what should be the role of an announcement message.
*    **Termination strategy:** Should be more robust to address common termination issues

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Track ID Assignment:** Decision deferred.  Participants to add further details and discussion to the associated GitHub issue.
*   **Control and Data Streams:** Ian will attempt to clarify the individual problems and summarise to determine a clear path forward.
*   **Reconnection semantics:** Colin to file a new issue about high availability designs to discuss the reconnect problem.
*   **Lock and warp merge proposal:** No decision, but the group seemed to be in favour. Further discussion needed on Wednesday.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussion on GitHub issues, particularly regarding track ID assignment and clean subscribe/unsubscribe.
*   Follow-up on the list to agree the most appropriate approach
*   Continue discussion on the moq transport draft, focusing on process improvements and prioritization of issues.
*   Further discussion on Wednesday regarding the Warp and Lock merger proposal.
*   Review the additional optimizations presented by Will Law.
*   Investigate ways to define a unified timing model
