```markdown
# oauth

## Summary

The OAuth working group held its first of three meetings, covering a range of topics from selective disclosure for JWTs to resource server metadata and cross-device flows. There was discussion of potential normative changes to the cross-device flow BCP, attestation, and identity programs at the IETF. Several action items were identified, including reviewing existing documents and contributing to the working group's efforts.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **SD Jot (Selective Disclosure for JWT):**
    *   Discussion on simplifying terminology and clarifying the relationship between elements in the underbar SD array and disclosures.
    *   Concern about revealing private information in array disclosures and the need for guidance on using decoys to obscure the number of redacted elements.
    *   Feedback that the current syntax for array element selective disclosure looks like a hack.
    *   General confusion on how SD Jot works for newcomers to the standard.
*   **OAuth for Browser-Based Apps:**
    *   Minor updates since the last meeting, primarily editorial and updating references.
    *   Discussion about the risk of exfiltrating browser-generated non-exportable keys from the file system.
    *   Agreement to start a working group last call.
*   **OAuth 2.1:**
    *   Significant changes to bring OAuth 2.1 and the Security BCP back in sync.
    *   The `redirect_uri` parameter is no longer part of the token endpoint request.
    *   Need to add a description of how OAuth 2.1 uses the form-encoded syntax.
    *   Request for an HTTP working group review to ensure adherence to HTTP standards.
    *   Discussion on whether a security BCP's explicit prohibition of course calls at the authorization endpoint conflicts with other response modes.
*   **Resource Server Metadata:**
    *   Consolidated the resource metadata and authorization server discovery drafts.
    *   Addresses use cases where clients dynamically connect to resource and authorization servers without pre-established relationships.
    *   Discussion on whether the WWW-Authenticate response should ever return a resource identifier at a different host and potential phishing risks.
    *   Concerns over the intended consumer of the resource metadata, i.e., client or authorization server.
*   **Cross-Device Flow:**
    *   Addresses social engineering exploits targeting cross-device flows (cross-device consent phishing).
    *   Updated terminology for describing different types of cross-device flows.
    *   Discussion of whether to introduce normative requirements to provide clearer guidance for implementers.
    *   Formal analysis of the device authorization grant by researchers from the University of Stuttgart.
    *   Collaboration with Royal Holloway University of London on UX guidance for cross-device flows.
*   **Attestation in DCR (Dynamic Client Registration):**
    *   Discussion on using attestation to improve dynamic client registration.
    *   Examination of using attestation in client authentication or as a separate, reusable layer.
    *   Considerations for workflow identity use cases and different client deployments.
    *   Inspiration taken from workload identity and Spiffy concepts.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **SD Jot:**
    *   Clarify the relationship between the elements in underbar SD and disclosures (ACTION: Christina and Brian).
    *   Consider providing guidance on using decoys. (ACTION: Christina and Brian)
    *   Dick to write up suggestions for improving array syntax (ACTION: Dick)
    *   Dick to provide more intro material on how SD Jot works (ACTION: Dick)
*   **OAuth for Browser-Based Apps:**
    *   Begin working group last call (ACTION: Chairs).
*   **OAuth 2.1:**
    *   Request review from the HTTP working group (ACTION: Aaron).
    *   Attendees to contact Roman regarding assistance getting an HTTP WG review.
    *   Attendees to contact Mike Jones to review list to look for potential conflicts. (ACTION: Dimitri)
    *   Mike Jones and Aaron to provide assistance for clarification (ACTION: Mike Jones and Aaron).
*   **Resource Server Metadata:**
    *   Solicit working group members to review the document.
    *   Call for adoption after reviews.
    *   Mike Jones to consult with a Santiago and talk to John Bennett to mitigate problems with redirecting elsewhere. (ACTION: Mike Jones)
*   **Cross-Device Flow:**
    *   Adopt normative text in the document (ACTION: Peter).
    *   Peter to investigate updating formal analysis section (ACTION: Peter).
    *   Consider UX improvements to the document (ACTION: Peter).
    *   Peter to evaluate issues prior to starting group last call. (ACTION: Peter)
    *   Chairs to start working group last call, if possible, before IETF 118.
*   **Attestation in DCR:**
    *   Schedule a call in August to discuss attestation technologies (ACTION: Hannes, Tobias, Ori, Choe, Peter).
    *   Aaron will share previous talk and slides on attestation. (ACTION: Aaron)

## Next Steps

*   Mailing list discussions to continue on open issues.
*   Working group members to review drafts and provide feedback.
*   Address the action items and prepare for future meetings.
*   Schedule call to discuss at attestation in August.
