# pce

## Summary

This was a full-day session for the PCE working group. Presentations covered a wide range of topics, including segment routing extensions, stateful PCE enhancements, and TLS updates. Discussions were focused on clarifying requirements, addressing technical issues, and aligning with related working groups. Several documents are nearing working group last call.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Flex-Algo (Fat) Considerations:** There was a detailed discussion on whether to always consider Flex-Algo constraints or allow for a mode where only the Algorithm ID is used for filtering. Concerns were raised about ignoring the entire Fat when inserting flexible algorithms.
*   **SR Policy and RRO:**  The discussion centered on whether the RRO object has meaning in the context of SR policies, and if it should be included.  Adrian presented strong counterarguments including potential use cases involving segment substitution and the need to report the actual path. This discussion should continue on the mailing list.
*   **Point-to-Multipoint SR Policy:** The architecture for point-to-multipoint SR policies was presented. The chairs pointed to inconsistencies in terminology with existing RFC's and that object descriptions require updates.
*   **Seamless BFD for SR Policy:** BFD requirements were discussed and the group was asked about the applicability to other working groups such as the BFD and MPLS working groups. Concerns were raised about potential protocol mixing.
*   **Network Resource Partitioning (NRP):** A merged document was presented and the working group was asked if it's ready for adoption.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Flex-Algo (Fat):**  The authors are asked to focus on the requirement point, break down the issue into two sets of requirements, and elicit feedback from the working group offline, perhaps by creating a question for the mailing list.
*   **SR Policy and RRO:** Continue the discussion about RRO usage in SR policies on the mailing list. Explore related drafts regarding explicit routes. Authors must decide if discussion is important to warrant blocking document.
*   **TLS Updates:** The group will send a question to the mailing list on whether to adopt the draft for updating TLS for PCE, while still aligning with piece-yang.
*   **P2MP policy:** The P2MP object description requires cleanup with consistent Rb terminology.
*   **Bier Stuff:** Determine correct stuff. Chairs to talk to bier chairs.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to update drafts based on meeting feedback.
*   Chairs to initiate working group last calls for documents nearing completion.
*   Continue discussions on mailing list to resolve open questions.
