# mediaman

## Summary

The mediaman meeting covered three main topics: the status of the "little" document regarding media type usage, the Hap media type registration, and the Suffix draft.  The meeting also touched upon potential changes to registration procedures to streamline the process and better support external communities.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Little Document (Media Type Usage):** The group discussed version 3 of the document, which closed all open issues and incorporated editorial changes.
    *   The document addresses the registration of new media types.
*   **Hap Media Type Registration:**  A presentation covered the compliance of the Hap draft with the criteria for new top-level media types.
    *   The Hap draft has been updated to address all raised issues.
    *   The specification defines media types for a haptic or "sense of touch" system.
*   **Suffix Draft:** A new algorithm for processing media suffixes was presented, aiming to simplify the process by primarily using the media types table instead of the suffix registry.
    *   Concerns were raised about potential inconsistencies arising from this approach, particularly regarding exceptions like "image/svg+xml".
    *   The discussion highlighted issues with the current state of the suffix registry, including copied and pasted text and misuse of columns.
*   **Registration Procedures:**  Discussions centered around streamlining registration processes, potentially using GitHub for tracking and management.
    *   There was a proposal to grant media type reviewers more discretion to allow registrations in the standards tree based on criteria such as documentation, open projects, community support, and deployment.
    *   A key concern was to maintain a high quality standard and avoid abuse of the registration process.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Little Document:** Ready for working group last call.
*   **Hap Media Type Registration:**  Ready for working group last call.
*   **Suffix Draft:** Not ready for last call. Further discussion is required on the mailing list regarding the new algorithm and handling of exceptions.
    *   **ACTION:** Improve documentation around new algorithm.
    *   **ACTION:** Clean up the suffix registry.  Alex Melnikov volunteered to help with this effort.
*   **Registration Procedures:**
    *   **ACTION:** Mark Nottingham to draft a document outlining updated instructions for reviewers, specifically regarding allowing registrations in the standards tree based on broader criteria.

## Next Steps

*   Send the "little" document and the Hap draft to working group last call.
*   Continue discussion on the Suffix draft and the proposed new algorithm on the mailing list.
*   Mark Nottingham to draft a document to update the instructions for reviewers.
